Setting Up An Iodine Tunnel in OpenBSD
kisom <kisom@devio.us>

What is iodine?
---------------
Iodine is a DNS tunneling application; it is useful for situations where
DNS requests are allowed but certain regular TCP sessions are not. It is
important to note that the tunnel is unencrypted; therefore, it should be
supplemented with an SSH tunnel for security.

This guide assumes the reader understands the concept of tunneling, and is
competent in systems administration.


Overview
--------
This guide will cover the following:
    * requirements
    * intro to iodine
    * server setup
    * client setup

I have written some scripts to largely automate the process, and these
will be presented as well.


Requirements
------------
iodine requires a domain that you have control over, the latest source tarballs
from http://code.kryo.se/iodine/ (both client and server should have the same
version), a BSD or Linux client, and a server with a static IP (or dynamic DNS)
that runs Linux or BSD. If you plan on using the scripts I wrote, you will need
the perl module Term::ReadKey - it's a common module that you can either
install with cpan (sudo cpan Term::ReadKey), or use one of these packages:
	* OpenBSD: devel/p5-Term-ReadKey
	* Debian: libterm-readkey-perl


Setting Up the Domain
----------------------
The host running the iodine server needs an A record. For the purposes of this
writeup, well use the following DNS names (as per the iodine README):
	t1ns.mydomain.com	- the host running iodine
	t1.mydomain.com		- the subdomain to listen for requests
We'll cover t1 in a second, but for now, t1ns is the host. Set an A record 
or dynamic DNS entry for the host.

Now, you need to create an NS (nameserver) record. The iodine README has 
specific instructions for bind; this NS record needs to point to t1ns. You
should end up with something like:
	NS	t1.mydomain.com		t1ns.mydomain.com
	 A	t1ns.mydomain.com	1.2.3.4

You can use the online utility at http://code.kryo.se/iodine/check-it to verify
your DNS is set up properly. 


Setting Up the Server
---------------------
To install iodine, you should grab the latest source tarball. Because the 
specifics of the protocol used by iodine change with different versions, you
should use the same version of the source on both the server and client.

Unpack the source tarball somewhere convenient, and run make && make install.
If you want to change the prefix, edit the Makefile (the prefix definition
should be on the first line).

On Debian, you can run dpkg-reconfigure iodine to use the (curses) GUI to
configure iodine. 
